>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I wanna talk
about our docs, the docs that we get out
of this, because I am a believer that an
API lives and dies by its documentation.
So that's my way of saying I think
documentation is super important.
So I wanna enhance this because right now,
these docs are fairly anemic.
You can look at our GET Employees,
our POST Employees.
It does have our request body, but
it doesn't have a nice little descriptor.
We can spruce these up a little bit.
It doesn't even tell us what are all
the different success codes.
For example, in our PUT request, in our
POST request, we should be able to say,
you could expect a 400 bad request
back if you give a 400 bad request.
And then describe the shape of
the object that we would expect.
So minimal APIs have
their way of doing it.
What you do is you just
chain off of the map get and
then you start calling more methods
to add more OpenAPI metadata.
We are going to add in some
attributes to basically better
describe to OpenAPI what's going on.
So let's update our endpoints to have
some descriptions and have some tags.
We're gonna start with
the ProducesResponseType attribute.
So let's take a look at that.
Okay, GetAllEmployees.
So we pasted that in.
And you can see that of this,
we should expect to see a 200 okay.
Here's the shape of the object that
you can expect to get back, or
a 500 internal server error
if something went wrong.
On our GetEmployeeById, we could
expect the same, except we should also
expect that we will be able to get back
a 404 if we request an employee ID for
an employee that does not exist.
And in our POST and PUT,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We
can do much of the same.
We know that if our POST
request is successful,
that we'll send back a 201 we
created with a GetEmployeeResponse.
And we could also send
back a 400 bad request.
And our PUT request can also have
all of those things plus a 404 not
found in case we don't have
that employee in our system.
So let's take a look at what that does for
our API.
We're gonna hit play, and
we're gonna see now when we scroll down,
we actually get what we expect back.
We get this 201 created.
The media type, okay, text/plain,
I don't exactly expect that.
We'll address that in one second.
This is the good stuff, 400 bad request.
And here's exactly what you can expect
the shape of that object to be.
This is really useful, especially for
developers on the frontend or
developers that are consuming
your API in any way.
It will create the document for you as
long as you give it enough metadata in
order to be able to create
that documentation.
So it'll send back, you know what,
you will give back a possible
validation problem details.
Here's what that looks like, or
a server error, as we expect.
Let's address this media
type thing real quick.
We know that this is a JSON API.
We know that we just wanna
send JSON back and forth.
We can do that by going up
to our base controller, and
we can add a produces, if I could
spell produces right, there we go.
And we can give it a content type.
You can see that content type
is one of the arguments.
And typically,
I just write produces application JSON.
I don't use any of the other arguments.
And when you play that and refresh,
you'll see now that the content type is
indeed application JSON,
which is what you would expect.
So that's already really great.
We've already done actually
quite a bit of it.
With very little work, we've actually
provided a huge amount of rich
documentation, which is really useful.
But we can do even better, and
that's where XML comments come in.
So XML comments are a really neat
language feature that I highly recommend
that if you're defining APIs
that other people will use.
APIs being JSON APIs, or
even just methods and functions,
I highly recommend that
you use XML comments.
So it's a good way to add
documentation to your code.
So here's how you do it.
I'm gonna hit stop.
I'm gonna go to my EmployeesController,
and I'm gonna go to the blank line above
and hit Enter, and
I'm gonna go slash, slash, slash.
And what it's gonna do
is create XML comments.
So you see up here,
there's a little XML bracket where
we can say gets all of
the employees in the system,
returns the employee in a JSON array.
So what you could do is
actually teach OpenAPI how to
interpret these XML comments,
which is really neat.
So let me show you how that works.
First things first, in your csproj file,
we'll go ahead and open that up real
quick, right here, and we're gonna add
in this GenerateDocumentationFile.
And what that's going to instruct
the build system to do is it's going to
instruct it to generate a .xml file
that contains all of the methods and
all of the properties that
we've added XML comments for.
And it's going to put them
inside of that XML file.
And then we can pick that XML file up and
read it.
You are going to start
getting a lot of warnings,
things like this, where you're
saying missing XML comment for
publicly visible or
type member EmployeesController.
And this will prevent build, right?
This will prevent build because
we said treat warnings as errors,
which is mostly a good
thing if you get a warning.
Most of the warnings
actually mean something.
But we can turn those off, and
that's what we're going to do,
because we don't necessarily
need to XML comment everything.
I don't know that it's super valuable
that we add an XML comment to
EmployeesController or
even the constructor.
So we're just going to bypass and ignore
that by adding in this NoWarn directive.
And basically, it's gonna say,
hey, turn off the warnings for
this particular error code.
And you can see that our
problem space in our IDE,
our squiggly lines are gone and
our problems are like, okay, well,
all right, we'll just trust
you know what you're doing.
And then lastly, in our builder.Services
call, we're gonna add this
IncludeXmlComments, so
we're just gonna copy and paste this in.
And we're gonna read
from the base directory.
And then we're gonna say,
read this TheEmployeeAPI.xml file.
So we can do that here.
When we go to our Program.cs,
we can go to our AddSwaggerGen.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And then we're
gonna say options.IncludeXmlComments.
And it's gonna read through
all of those XML comments and
then apply them to our
Swagger documentation.
So I only did it on one endpoint,
which is our GET endpoint right here.
But you can see that we can add it and
say gets all the employees in our system.
So let's go ahead and
apply them to the rest of the endpoints.
Because XML comments can also
include data on the parameters
to that method,
which is actually really valuable.
So we're gonna go ahead and
do that on our update employees call.
We're gonna go here.
We're gonna go down to UpdateEmployee,
paste that in.
We're gonna go down to our,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Create and
paste that in.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
we're gonna go to this, GetEmployeeById.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Paste that in.
And then you see when we rerun
the project that our nice XML
comments get copied over,
as well as a nice description
of each of the parameters,
which is really cool.
The reason I like this a lot is
that it's developer friendly, so
it's integrated in with the language.
It gives the developer a natural way
to create comments in a way that
makes sense to them.
But it also gives enough
metadata back to Swagger
such that our OpenAPI UI can
actually use this information.
And you can't do this with minimal APIs.
You have to go through and define it.
It's a little bit messier, but
it is possible to do this.
But XML comments, I like it
because it's language integrated.
It's very natural.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So
we made our documentation much better, and
I think that's a good thing.